Internal: Documentation for context menu API [ED-7419] (#18913)
elementor/elementor: docs/packages/context-menu/Context-menu-manager.md

# Context Menu Manager (API)

> ### Table of content

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Table of contents
```

Author: Done.

- [Introduction](#Introduction)
    - [Context menu UI behavior](#Context menu UI behavior)
    - [Context-Menu config structure](#Context Menu config structure)
    - [Structure tree](#Structure tree)

> - [API methods]()

Reviewer: points to nothing

Author: Done.

  - [Create a group](#Create a group)
  - [Update a group](#Update a group)
  - [Delete a group](#Delete a group)
  - [Add item](#Add item)
  - [Update item](#Update item)
  - [Delete item](#Delete item)

>   - [Get config](#Get config)

Reviewer: the links don't work

Author: Done.

> - [Understanding the usage flow]()

Reviewer: same as above

Author: Done.

  - [Registration of new items](#Registration of new items)
  - [Triggering the context menu flow](#Triggering the context menu flow)

> - [Example of usage]()

Reviewer: same

Author: Done.

## Introduction
The context menu manager provides a convenient way for managing the context menu structure.
The manager is responsible for building a tree of nested groups/items that forms the actual structure of the context menu, as presented in the UI.   

> The manager is based on CRUD principles while providing simple functions for adding, updating, deleting, and in the end - provides a function for reading the main tree that have been created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The manager is based on CRUD principles and provides simple methods for adding, updating & deleting items, as well as retrieving them as a tree.
```

Maybe this sounds better?

Author: Done.

### Context menu UI behavior

> For better understanding the structure and the manager, lets see some important UI notes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a better understanding of the structure and the manager, let's see some important UI notes:
```

Author: Done.

> * The context menu displays a list of items, by default each item provides an action when clicking on it.
> 
> * Items can provide action also on hover (mouseEnter).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The context menu displays a list of items that support `onClick` & `onMouseEnter` callbacks.
```

Author: Done.

> * If an item contains children groups, hovering on it will open a sub menu, and clicking on it won't trigger action.

Reviewer: Isn't it more of a UI thing? The manager doesn't care about it

Author: No. It's important to understand how to use the API.

Reviewer: I'm not sure.
@matipojo WDYT?

> * Groups themselves are not visually displayed, they just displays their items and separate between them.

Reviewer: same as above

Author: No. As above.

> * A group can display a title, if a title is specified.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A group can have a title.
```
Not sure how important it is

Author: Again - the importance here is for understanding how to use it and why it was built (the API) like this.
A group is not visually displayed, not like an item that t is displayed always. But a group **can** display a title, only if the title is specified. otherwise - the group won't take any place at all. When one comes to using this API, he must understand this.

Reviewer: As the developer of the API, you don't know how people will consume it and/or show the UI for it

* Items of a group are displayed together, separated from other group items with a line separator.

> * Nested groups are displayed as a sub-menu aside the main context-menu.

Reviewer: again, that's UI

Author: No.

### Context Menu config structure
The context menu config structure is built as a tree of groups & items.

> The root is based on groups, each group contains one or more item (inside its `items[]` property).

Author: Done.

> Items can also have children, inside their `groups[]` property. those children are *nested groups*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Items can also have children, inside their `groups` property.
```

I don't think it's necessary

Author: Partly axepted.

Author: It's crucial to understand the structure.

Reviewer: yeah, but it's obvious that a group that is a child of an item is a *nested* group...

### Structure tree

```TS
interface Group {
	id: string; 				// Must be unique.
	title: string;				// If exists, displayed as a group title without action to trigger.

> 	disabled: Function | boolean;		// If true, the entire group is Displayed but disabled.

Author: Awesome, thanks.

> 	parentItemId: string;			// Id of the parent (a valid item id). if used - creates a nested menu.

Author: No, it has been (on purpose) built to search empty string (''), and not null.

	items: Item[]; 				// List of items.
};

interface Item {
	id: string;				// Must be unique.

> 	label: string;				// Describes the action.

Author: No, there is a big difference between a title and a label.

> 	label: string;				// Describes the action.

Author: Intentionally...

> 	icon: Function | string;		// Can be a callback for checkbox effect.

Reviewer: huh?

Author: If it has been clicked, the icon changed. Unclick - returns to normal. A way to display the status.

Reviewer: try to rephrase the comment because it's not so understandable

Author: Canceled this option.

> 	shortCut: string;			// ShortCut symbols. 

Author: Done, a symbol is... well:
 ^_~ↆ∂∎∑ↇ√∔∵≋⋠⊷④⒅^*# ....

	badge: Badge;				// Creates a visual badge for special indications.
	disabled: Function | boolean;		// If true, displayed but disabled.

> 	action: Function;			// A callback to be triggered on-click.

Author: Prefer not to. seems to me more understandable & fluid if called action, its the main purpose of the item - 'the action'

> 	action: Function;			// A callback to be triggered on-click.

Reviewer: Check what other libraries do

	onMouseEnter: Function;			// A callback to be triggered on-mouse-enter.
	onMouseLeave: Function;			// A callback to be triggered on-mouse-leave.
	groups: Group[];			// List of groups (for nested menus).
};

interface Badge {

> 	backgroundColor: string;		// Background color of the badge.

Reviewer: what if I want gradient?

Author: We support only a simple badge.

Reviewer: for now. In the future we might want a custom one

Author: I prefer not to allow JSX etc... the budge usage is specific and precise.

	color: string;				// Text color of the badge.
	text: string;				// Text of badge.
}

type Structure = Group[];
```

> &nbsp;  

Reviewer: why do you need those?

> &nbsp;  

Author: To create more spaces between lines. A markdown thing. Spaces are crucial for focusing.

## API methods

> Each method has parameters explanation and attention notes if needed.

Reviewer: redundant

Author: Don't agree.

Reviewer: 🤷

&nbsp;
### Create a group

> `createGroup( newGroup )` Method creates a group and add it to the config tree. 

Author: Accepted. Thanks.

&nbsp;  
Example:
```JS

> createGroup(

Reviewer: ```suggestion
manager.createGroup(
```

Author: I'm not sure its important here. I don't explain how to use it (why 'manager'?, it can be also API or many things...) but just show the function parameters in use.

Reviewer: because then it looks like some global function

Author: I think if we add 'manager' we need also to add a lino for  
const manager = new ContextMenuManager();
so I prefer not to. I leave it like this.

 	{
 		id: '',				// Required.
 		title: '', 			// Optional, if not specified will be '' as default.
 		disabled: false,	// Optional, if not specified will be false as default.

>  		parentItemId: '',	// Optional, if not specified will be '' as default.

Reviewer: if it's optional, define that in the Type above

Author: It is optional to specify those properties when using the API method. 
but if not specified, the manager will fill them with default values.

 	}

>  );

Reviewer: fix identation

Author: Done,

```

&nbsp;  
Notes:
> The group 'id' property must be unique. recommended using as: scopeNameOrFeatureName_someGroupActionName

> > The parentItemId, if used, must point to an existing *item*, otherwise the group won't be displayed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The `parentItemId`, if used, must point to an existing *item*, otherwise the group won't be displayed.
```

also others

Author: Done.

 
> The item 'label' property can contain up to 30 chars max (or will be trimmed).

&nbsp;
### Update item
`updateItem( groupId, itemId, itemData )` Method updates an item data.

&nbsp;  
Example:
```JS
updateItem(
	'groupId',					// Required.
	'itemId',					// Required.
 	{
		label: 'action name',	// One or more item properties to be update.
 	}
 );
```

&nbsp;  
Notes:
> The groupId parameter must point to an existing group.

> The itemId parameter must point to an existing item inside the given group.

&nbsp;
### Delete item
`deleteItem( groupId, itemId )` Method deletes an item.

&nbsp;  
Example:
```JS
deleteItem(
	'groupId',					// Required.
	'itemId',					// Required.
 );
```

&nbsp;  
Notes:
> The item will be deleted with all the subgroups that points to it.

&nbsp;
### Get config
`getConfig()` Method returns the config tree of groups & items.
This method is used to get the config tree for building the context menu structure in the UI.
It returns an array of groups, that contains items, that may contain subgroups and so on.

&nbsp;
## Understanding the usage flow

The config tree is built as an array because of the need to manage order of groups & items in the tree.

> The manager is built to allow prioritizing built-in element registering new groups over 3rd party registrations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The manager is built to allow prioritizing built-in elements groups over 3rd party registrations.
```

Author: Done.

> To better understand that, lets dive into the registration of new groups & the triggering flow works:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To better understand that, let's dive into the registration of new groups and learn how the triggering flow works:
```

Author: Great! Thanks

### Registration of new items

> There are two cases for adding items to the context menu. the first case is for built-in widgets & elements in the editor (column, section, containers, widgets) that add items to the context menu, and the second is when a third-party extension/plugin does so. Both of them use the same API methods of the contextMenuManager.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two cases for adding items to the context menu. The first case is for built-in entities in the editor (sections, columns, containers, widgets, panels, etc.) that add items to the context menu. The second one is for third-party extensions/plugins. Both of them use the same API methods of the `ContextMenuManager`.
```

Author: Done, thanks!

> The built-in element has the priority to register its items first, and also to register the last items too. In fact, the built-in element manages the timing of third-parties registration and triggers the entire flow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The built-in element has the power to prioritize the registration order of the 1st & 3rd party items and trigger the entire flow.
```

Author: Done!

### Triggering the context menu flow

> The element triggers the `GlobalEventHandlers.oncontextmenu` when a right-click or context-menu keyboard key down happens inside the element scope. the `oncontextmenu` calls a function that starts the flow as described:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The element triggers a [`contextmenu`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Element/contextmenu_event) event on right-click or context-menu key click inside its scope. The `oncontextmenu` calls a function that starts the flow as described:
```

Plus I didn't really understand the last sentence

Author: Partially accepted. The 'context-menu keyboard key down' is a specific keyboard key on the keyboard...

> 1. Creates an instance of `contextMenuManager` class.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Creates an instance of `ContextMenuManager` class.
```

Author: ?

> 2. Registers its context menu groups & items, using the `contextMenuManager` API methods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Registers its context menu groups & items, using the `ContextMenuManager` API methods.
```

Author: ?

3. Dispatch a custom event that third-party listens to.

> 4. Third-party registers their own groups & items, that will be display after the elements groups.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Third-party registers their own groups & items, that will be displayed after the elements groups.
```

Author: Done.

5. Then, if needed, the element registers last groups & items (items to be displayed after 3rd parties items).

> 6. Call methods `getConfig`, to get the config tree context menu structure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Call methods `getConfig()`, to get the config tree context menu structure.
```

Author: Done.

7. Sends the config data to the context menu UI components.

&nbsp;
## Example of usage

```JS

import { ContextMenuManager } from 'elementor/packages/context-menu/manager';

// Element triggering the flow, when right-clicked on it:
export const onContextMenu = () => {
	const manager = new ContextMenuManager();

	// Add groups that will be displayed first:
	manager.createGroup(
		{ id: 'groupId-1' }
	);

	manager.addItem(
		'groupId-1',
		{ id: 'some-item-id', label: 'Do some magic' }
	);

	manager.createGroup(
		{ id: 'groupId-2' }
	);

	manager.addItem(
		'groupId-1',
		{ id: 'another-item-id', label: 'Do another magic' }
	);

	// Allow adding groups from Third party:
	window.dispatchEvent( new CustomEvent( 'elementor/element/contextMenu', { detail: {
			manager, 						// Send the manager instance
			elType: 'widget',				// Send data about the triggerer
			widgetType: 'awesome-widget3',	// Send data about the triggerer

> 		} } ) );

Reviewer: beautify

Author: Done.

	// Add groups that will be displayed last:
	manager.createGroup(
		{ id: 'groupId-last' }
	);

	manager.addItem(
		'groupId-last',
		{ id: 'last-item-id', label: 'Do the last magic' }
	);

    // Trigger the UI components to display the config tree:

> 	ReactDom.createPortal(manager.getConfig())

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	renderUI( manager.getConfig() )
```

make the example more generic

Author: Done.
